blog-posts/why-i-use-markdown-to-take-notes/why-i-use-markdown-to-take-notes.md, before:

---
published: false
title: 'Why I use Markdown to take notes'
cover_image: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Kvanrooyen/dev.to/master/blog-posts/why-i-use-markdown-to-take-notes/assets/notes.jpg'
description: 'Using Markdown to take notes'
tags: firstpost, markdown, devto, blogpost, notes
series:
canonical_url:
---

This is my first article, so please go gentle on me, but I wanted to talk about why I started using Markdown to take notes.

## Why Markdown

Before I started using Markdown, I used to take notes in [OneNote](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ie/microsoft-365/onenote/digital-note-taking-app?rtc=1). Why wouldn't I? It was cross-platform, it synced my notes across devices, and it was familiar. I started using it to take notes in my meetings, and it worked ok. I could take the notes, and then I could send them as a message later in our group chat. My issue came in the form of me spending too much time worrying about the formatting and then after the meeting I would need to formatt the notes again. When I send the messages on our group chat, I can use a small amount of Markdown.

After using OneNote for about a week of taking notes, I decided that I would try using Markdown. I had some experience with Markdown from GitHub, so I felt comfortable taking notes with it. Markdown seemed like it would help solve my "issues", since I could quickly format the notes (Mainly bolding important things), and focus on taking better notes.

## Choosing and editor

When it came to choosing a Markdown editor, I had 2 main requirements:

- Open Source
- Simple and distraction free design

I came across some great looking editors, most of which I can't remember now. Eventually I decided on using [Mark Text](https://github.com/marktext/marktext), it was almost perfect out the box. I only changed a couple small things before I started using it. I changed the default theme, the font size and have it open a specific folder on launch.

Commit message:

First draft of finished post

blog-posts/why-i-use-markdown-to-take-notes/why-i-use-markdown-to-take-notes.md, after:

---
published: false
title: 'Why I use Markdown to take notes'
cover_image: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Kvanrooyen/dev.to/master/blog-posts/why-i-use-markdown-to-take-notes/assets/notes.jpg'
description: 'Using Markdown to take notes'
tags: firstpost, markdown, devto, blogpost, notes
series:
canonical_url:
---

This is my first article, so please go gentle on me :grin:, but I wanted to talk about why I started using Markdown to take notes.

# Why Markdown

Before I started using Markdown, I used to take notes in [OneNote](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ie/microsoft-365/onenote/digital-note-taking-app?rtc=1). Why wouldn't I? It was cross-platform, it synced my notes across devices, and it was familiar. I started using it to take notes in my meetings, and it worked ok. I could take the notes, and then I could send them as a message later in our group chat. My issue came in the form of me spending too much time worrying about the formatting and then after the meeting I would need to formatt the notes again. When I send the messages on our group chat, I can use a small amount of Markdown.

After using OneNote for about a week of taking notes, I decided that I would try using Markdown. I had some experience with Markdown from GitHub, so I felt comfortable taking notes with it. Markdown seemed like it would help solve my "issues", since I could quickly format the notes (Mainly bolding important things), and focus on taking better notes.

# Choosing and editor

When it came to choosing a Markdown editor, I had 2 main requirements:

- Open Source
- Simple and distraction free design

I came across some great looking editors, most of which I can't remember now. Eventually I decided on using [Mark Text](https://github.com/marktext/marktext), it was almost perfect out the box. I only changed a couple small things before I started using it. I changed the default theme, the font size and have it open a specific folder on launch.

# Final Setup

I have now been using Mark Text and Markdown to take notes, for almost 3 months. So far the experience has been incredibly smooth. I have a folder saved in the cloud, which contains all my notes, this folder is also stored locally on my device. This way if I get a new device or need to use another device, all I need to do is install Mark Text and point to the folder with my notes.

I have saved myself a decent amount of time, by switching to Markdown. I know longer need to spend as much time post meeting, making sure the notes look good and are easy to read/understand. My typing speed seems to have improved as well, so thats always good. :smiley:

# Found a typo?

If you've found a typo, a sentence that could be improved or anything else that should be updated on this blog post, you can access it through a git repository and make a pull request. Instead of posting a comment, please go directly to [github.com/Kvanrooyen/dev.to](https://github.com/Kvanrooyen/dev.to) and open a new pull request with your changes.
